CodeBook
==================


R script called run_analysis.R and perform following major steps. Details of steps are further explain undere section Details.

step1 Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.

step2 Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 

step3 Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set

step4 Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 

step5 From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

For every step, a corresponding step#Result variable can be retrieved to analyze transformation result, whereby # is number, e.g. step1Result

step1 Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.


Details
Transformation for step1 Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
features.txt and all txt files under test and train folders are read.table() and variables named as per filename. cbind test dataframe with actvity and subject. same cbind perform again on train dataframe. step1Result is rbind with test and train dataframe.

Transformation for step2 Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
meanAndStdInd is setup by checking out the index of std and mean in features
step2Result is subsetting from step1Result.


Transformation for step3 Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
activity_labels is read in from file system. column name of descriptive activity is updated as "activity_name". step3Result is merge with step2Result and activity_labels.

Transformation for step4 Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
step3Result column names is output into a text file, manually analyze the wording. 
A column name list is generated by 
1. replacing 3 dots into 1 dot 
2. removing 2 dots
step4Result updated with the column name list.

Transformation for step5 From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
utilize library dplyr. step4Result group by activity_name and subject, step5Result is summarize_each by mean function.  



